---
slug: 3
title: Devblog 3
description: As with so many of the best things life has to offer, we at Scrap Mechanic HQ find ourselves tired and satisfied after a prolonged period of some considerable exertion.
image: images/devblog/3/title.png
toc_max_heading_level: 4
---

<head>
    <meta name="twitter:card" content="summary_large_image" />
</head>

![](/images/devblog/3/title.png)

**Hi Mechanics!**

As with so many of the best things life has to offer, we at Scrap
Mechanic HQ find ourselves tired and satisfied after a prolonged
period of some considerable exertion. 
<!--truncate-->
By that, we of course mean we've
had an incredibly busy month where we totally took care of business -
and we've got about four hundred metric tons of awesome to share with
you!

![](/images/devblog/3/scrapmechanic04032015_162738601.png)

#### Multiplayer and Physics

Time for an update on the multiplayer! It's now possible to build
things with physics, and it actually runs just great. We've just spent
the whole day building vehicles and we're seriously chuffed to bits
over how fun it is to play now.

![](/images/devblog/3/female-mechanic.png)

#### Female Mechanic

Remember in our [first devblog](/devblog/1#secret) when we said we were working on a
secret? Time to uncover the mystery! For a while now, we've been
working on modeling a female mechanic! We're happy to announce that
you're now able to play as a male or female. We're a little bit stuck
on a name for our new Mechanic Maiden - maybe you have some
suggestions for us? Let us know on Facebook or Twitter! We also
started working on her animation.

![](/images/devblog/3/radio.png)

#### Tune In to Agribot FM!

Oh no! Those beastly agribots have hijacked the radio station and are
now transmitting classic selections from their deeply unusual taste in
music. Sadly there's not much we can do about it, but we did add a
radio to the game so you can at least have a listen. The speakers
aren't that great but it's better then nothing. You can install the
radio on your vehicle or just have it beside you as you build. If you
don't like the music, don't come crying to us... Maybe you're brave
enough to go ask the agribots if they do requests?

![](/images/devblog/3/collision.png)

#### Collision Sounds

Hey. What's that sound? Did you hear that? Why, it's just the sound of
all the scrap colliding with awesome new custom noises, that's all!
We've added a whole bunch of sounds to every item in the game so that
when it collides with a certain surface (wood, plastic, stone etc.),
it makes a satisfying noise. Not only do your creations act with
physics, but now they also act with sound. Now, who's gonna be the
first mechanic to build a drum machine on wheels?

![](/images/devblog/3/buttons-final.png)

#### Punchable Buttons

For centuries, man has pursued power, wealth, happiness, and - of
course - the perfect button. The pursuit of the perfect button began
with simple questions... Questions such as "what material should make up
the button?" and "what kind of paint should adorn the button's sweet,
sweet face?" Then Robin happened. Robin is a button manufacturer
extraordinaire and he answered those questions with the grace and
confidence of a terrific eagle of some kind. He made the button
irresistibly round and a joy to punch, and gave it the near-mythical
capability of turning stuff on. And/or off. We've also fixed it so
that when you have something connected to buttons on your vehicle,
you're able to access all the buttons on the hotbar while driving.
This makes it incredibly easy to dazzle and excite your friend or
friends with the sweet convertible ride you just built.

![](/images/devblog/3/scrapmechanic03252015_143550552.png)

#### Gigantic Trees

The team here at Scrap Mechanic HQ loves endless, dense, lush forests
to explore and get lost in. If you don't share our arboreal
enthusiasm, you'll be horrified to learn that we've added some brand
new humungous trees to the game. Inspired by the majesty of the Giant
Redwood, you'll be feeling like one humble little mechanic standing
next to these bad boys, but don't worry! You can just compensate by
building something massive and robust to make you feel less like
you're having a bit of an existential crisis.

![](/images/devblog/3/k-wn4am-w-awg_-vdxjc-zkizl1dh0qjlgrwca1lrkc.png)

#### Pistons!

We've been working on creating a usable piston in a couple of handy
varieties: one with a shorter extension and one a little longer. This
is going to make it easy to make nifty sliding doors and fully
functional elevators, but also unlocks the magic of a cruel and
unusual super-sport: Stuff Poking. Attach the piston to your vehicle
and - from a convenient distance and at a mere keystroke - poke stuff
off cliffs. Stuff that has been made by your friend or friends. Just
poke it. Poke it right off a cliff and gleefully observe the ensuing
dismay.

#### Yeah guys, this all sounds great but when can I play the game?!

Lots of you future mechanics have been in touch by mail, on Facebook
and through Twitter to ask us about a our early access release date
(...keep that stuff up by the way, we love to hear from you and your
enthusiasm is making grown developers weep tears of the purest joy.
Thanks!).

The best answer we've got for you right now is we're aiming for later
in 2015. We believe that unless good value can be guaranteed to the
player, a developer should not yet release on early access. Even
though Scrap Mechanic is a whole heap of fun to play in creative mode
right now, there are a few things we want to add that we think are
going to make it even better. Be sure to follow us on Facebook and
Twitter to stay ahead of the game and get all our updates and release
plans first! In the meantime, Robin has unleashed another of his
talents and presents you with this expertly baked Scrap Mechanic
muffin to reward you for your patience as we work to produce something
we're proud of and that you'll hopefully love.

![](/images/devblog/3/muffin-final.png)

If you have any requests or suggestions, feel free to contact us via
Facebook or Twitter We love hearing from all you future Mechanics!

