---
slug: devblog-6
title: Devblog 6
description: So, Scrap Mechanic is finally available to play on Steam Early Access! It's been almost two weeks since release, and we've been totally blown away by the response from you guys!
image: ./title.png
toc_max_heading_level: 4
authors: kacper
original_url: https://store.steampowered.com/news/app/387990/view/85934728296029189
---

![](./title.png)

**Hi Mechanics!**

So, Scrap Mechanic is finally available to play on Steam Early Access! It's been
almost two weeks since release, and we've been totally blown away by the
response from you guys.

<!--truncate-->

Seeing so many of you making all of the most incredible machines and vehicles
has been completely mind-blowing, and the creativity on display is beyond
impressive.

Honestly, Mechanics, you guys have got serious game!

You've really been putting the game through its paces! In reading all your
feedback and watching your gameplay videos, we're being provided with this
immense learning experience, and the total tonnage of what we've learned from
you all since release could stop even the most aggressive of oncoming Farmbots
in its tracks!

Obviously all of these learnings for us come from your occasional moments of
frustration with bugs and lag, but we swear your grey hairs are worth it because
together we're gonna build something incredibly, well, incredible. For real
though, thanks so much for your patience.

By the way, we're about to expand! Scrap Mechanic HQ is a really small place, so
we're on the hunt for a bigger pad and faster, better progress will be coming
along in the form of a few new additions to the team. We're crazy excited about
both of these things, and we'll keep you posted when we learn more!

Here are some of the things we've been busy with since launch!

---

### Bug Fixes & Optimization!

With all of the information flooding in from videos, forums and by email, all of
our time is being spent on improvements based on your feedback. Squashing bugs
and optimizing the game is a crucial focus for us right now because getting
these fundamentals right for you guys is the best way for us to ensure your best
possible Scrap Mechanic experience. Like we've already said, the sheer volume of
info we're getting is amazing, so we're expecting to spend a few solid weeks on
all of this stuff, but we're confident it'll be worth it for everyone! As soon
as we're done with bug-hunting and optimization, we'll be right back to working
on Survival mode as well as other content.

---

### Beep, Beep!

![](./horn.png) ![](./horn2.png) <br/> With so many vehicles being built,
there's something decidedly wrong of us to have not provided you with a horn. We
realize what a despicable travesty this is, and have started work on a
delightful horn that you can attach to your rides and give your mechanic friends
a honk or two. Or three. Four on weekends and holidays. You could even use it as
a doorbell! Your horn possibilities will be endless, especially since we're even
giving some thought to adding a pitch slider so you can create your own perfect,
personal honk! We'll keep you posted on how it's turning out!

---

### Paint Stuff!

![](./paint-tool.png) <br/> We've been hard at work on a new tool for quite some
time now, and it's been pretty difficult to stay quiet about it. We're stoked to
be able to show it to you today for the first time: introducing the paint tool!
Loaded with tons of beautiful colors for you to choose from, the paint tool
allows you to add your style to any part in the game. Paint your drivers' seat
pink, or why not make a pixel art masterpiece for your garage wall? Further
personalization of your creations is the name of the game with this new tool,
and once you've got your mitts on it, you'll never want to build without it! We
are still working on it.

---

### New Building Parts

![](./new-props.png) <br/> We've constantly got a pan of delicious new parts on
the stove, bubbling away waiting to be served up to you Mechanics! Take a look
at this comfy mattress or this functional yet chic toilet seat! Who wouldn't
want a vehicle built with some of these new parts? New parts coming to a
Creative mode near you in a later update.

---

### Robot Concepts

![](./robot1.png) ![](./robot2.png) <br/> We've been toying with a bunch of new
Farmbot concepts for Survival mode. Exploring different designs and thinking
about their unique abilities and parts is a ton of fun, and we're pleased to
present to you an early glimpse at some of our ideas!

---

Just wanna close up by saying a massive thanks to all you Mechanics who've been
supporting us! We're so pumped to really throw all we've got at making Scrap
Mechanic the best game we possibly can! We're sticking around, and hope you guys
are ready to stick with us on this journey we call Scrap Mechanic!

Peace & machinery from SMHQ
